### Installing

If you're reading this, you've successfully installed the latest version of Plumber, the workflow solution for Umbraco.

The installation process created a new backoffice section (you're in it), and added a suite of new features to your Umbraco website.

The installer grants access to the new section for all users in the Administrators group. You may wish to modify this according to best suit your site and requirements.

Check in on the Workflow section dashboard to stay up-to-date with the latest release - when the installed version is superceded, Plumber will prompt you to upgrade.

### Settings

Plumber comes pre-wired with sensible defaults, but these should be modified to best suit your site.

- **Default approval group:** this is the fallback group for cases when no workflow is configured. You'll need to configure your groups before setting this value.
- **Flow type:** how should the approval flow progress? These options manage how the change author is included in the workflow:
    - **All:** all steps of the workflow must be completed, and all users will be notified of tasks (including the change author)
    - **Other:** all steps where the original change author is NOT a member of the group must be completed
    - **Exclude:** all steps must be completed, but the original change author will not be notified of tasks if they are a member of subsequent approval groups
- **Send notifications:** if your users are active in the backoffice, email notifications might not be required. Turn them off here.
- **Workflow email:** Set a sender address for notification emails. This defaults to the system email as defined in umbracoSettings.config
- **Site URL:** the URL for the public website (including schema - http[s])
- **Edit site URL:** the URL for the editing environment (including schema - http[s])
- **Exclude nodes:** nodes selected here are excluded from the workflow engine and will be published per the configured Umbraco user permissions
- **Document-type approvals:** configure workflows to be applied to all content of the selected document type. Refer to xx for details on approval flow types

### Approval groups

Plumber uses a separate groups model from the rest of your Umbraco website. It's different, but looks familiar.

The view will display the current assigned responsibilities for the group, to help keep track of who is approving which pages.

Add users to approval groups to determine which users will be responsible for approving content changes.

- **Group email:** sometimes it's more appropriate to send workflow notifications to a generic inbox rather than the individual group members. Add a value here to do exactly that.
- **Description:** it isn't used anywhere other than the group view. It's a note to remind you why the group exists.

### Approval flow types

Approval flows come in three flavours: explicit, inherited and document-type.

A given content node may have all three approval flow types applied, but only one will be applied per the following order of priority:

- **Explicit:** set directly on a content node via the context menu. This type will take priority over all others.
- **Document-type:** set in the settings section. This approval flow will apply to all content of the selected document type, unless the node has an explicit flow set.
- **Inherited:** if a node has no explicit approval flow, nor a flow applied to its document-type, Plumber will traverse the content tree until it finds a node with an explicit flow, and will use this flow for the current change. For this reason, an approval flow should always be set on the homepage node as a default.

Current responsibilites for groups can be reviewed on the user group view, for explicit and document-type approval flows only.

### Dashboards

Plumber adds a set of dashboards to the Umbraco install:

- **User dashboard:** added in the content section, this view displays all submissions and pending tasks for the current user. If the current user is also a workflow administrator (ie they have access to the Workflow section), they are also shown a paginated list of all current workflow tasks.
- **Admin dashboard:** the default view in the Workflow section, the admin dashboard renders two tabs:
    - the overview tab renders a chart displaying workflow activity over the selected time period (defaults to 28 days). Tasks are grouped by status: approved, cancelled, rejected and pending. The dashboard also displays a notification when the installed Plumber version needs updating.
    - the documentation tab is the one you're reading.
    - the log viewer tab provides an interface to the internal logs generated by workflow actions. Hopefully there's no ERROR items in here.

### Context menu

Plumber adds two new options to the content node context menu:

- **Workflow history:** displays an overview of the workflow tasks completed for the current node
- **Workflow configuration:** provides an interface to set the explicit approval flow for the current node, and displays any document-type or inherited approval flows (these can not be modified from the context menu)

Both options are only displayed for workflow administrator users (ie, those users with access to the Workflow section).

### Button drawer

Plumber replaces the default Umbraco button set in the editor drawer. Depending on user permissions, content state and workflow state, the button set will display one of the following:

- Save
- Request publish
- Approve changes

The button set dropdown will include additional options:

- Reject changes
- Cancel workflow
- Request unpublish

In cases where the content is already in a workflow, a notification is displayed next to the button set. Plumber also ensures modified content is saved before submitting for publish approval. 

For nodes where the workflow has been disabled, the default Umbraco options are displayed.